in this lesson we're gonna take some of
the notes that we've already learned on
the instrument and turned them into
musical alphabet letters so we're gonna
start with the one that we just ended
the last lesson with let's review your
right hand is only going to be pushing
down the pinkie key nothing else just
the pinkie your left hand the thumb
stays down in the back and then we have
fingers 1 2 3 no pinkie in your left
hand so again right hand pinkie only
left hand thumb 1 2 3 let's play that
note and again you might get that higher
one and that's okay but for now we're
gonna display the lower one so the flute
works a lot like the recorder as we lift
up fingers listen to what happens to the
sound all I did was start with
everything in my left hand down except
the pinky and then I lifted and then I
lifted again you can hear that the sound
gets higher as you lift fingers up so
think about the musical alphabet as the
sound gets higher where you go forwards
through the music alphabet this note
that we're starting with thumb 1 2 3 is
the musical alphabet letter G so let's
play it and in your head think about G
so if we lift up one finger the sound
goes higher we go forwards in the
musical alphabet think about what letter
comes right after G remember it's not H
we go back to the beginning and it's a
so let's play thumb one
to only and that's the note a let's go
back to G by putting that third finger
down again now go back and forth between
G a G a G a try it again so those are
the first couple of notes that we know
we have G lifts up for a if we lift up
that second finger we go forwards again
we go higher again and you can guess
that we're going to go to the letter B
so let's try starting on a and going a.b
a.b a.b try it try it again
remember to keep your fingers really
close to the keys even when you're
lifting up they don't lift way up here
just enough to open up this space now
we're going to try g lift one for a lift
one for B listen to it try that with me
G a B here we go try it again
let's try going backwards now start on B
add one finger for a and then add the
third finger for G let's just say the
letters as we put down fingers already
start on B B add one for a add one for G
now just play that try it one more time
after you get real comfortable with that
we're gonna add even more to it
let's play B add one for a add one for G
and then we're gonna go right back up G
a B so say the letters and finger
through this with me b a g lift for a
back to B let's try it try it again even
if you miss one or if you skip one by
accident keep trying it that's the only
way you're gonna be able to do it B a G
a B ready now we could turn that into a
song that you've probably heard before
let me play it for you and I want you to
spend the next few days trying to figure
out how to do this song on only these
three notes
good luck